Welcome to Node.js Coding Round Success - your guide to interview preparation.
I'll share the most critical questions and solutions for backend development interviews.
Let's begin with asynchronous programming patterns in Node.js.
Understanding callbacks, promises, and async/await is absolutely essential.
Here's a key question: How would you implement a rate limiter middleware?
Rate limiting prevents API abuse and ensures fair resource usage.
Next topic: file system operations and stream processing in Node.js.
Streams are crucial for handling large files without memory overflow.
Let's discuss clustering and how to scale Node.js applications.
The cluster module allows you to create child processes for better performance.
Error handling strategies are another common interview topic.
Proper error handling prevents application crashes and improves reliability.
Security considerations in Node.js applications are critically important.
Input validation, authentication, and authorization must be implemented correctly.
Performance optimization techniques can set you apart from other candidates.
Memory management, caching strategies, and database optimization are key areas.
Testing methodologies using Jest, Mocha, or other frameworks are essential.
Write comprehensive unit tests and integration tests for your applications.
These concepts will give you confidence in any Node.js coding interview!